So far each time we learn the new concept of LA travel and then implemented that inside our example
LA travel blog application we verified if everything works by simply clicking through the application
inside the browser.
So this approach seems to be very simple and you might think that it saves you some time by not writing
and it s but of course it's not true because it is first time consuming and then when your application
grows it's almost impossible to verify that every feature of your application still works as expected.
And of course you often make changes to the application and then verifying that everything still works
is also pretty impossible.
So you might think that you do not need to write tests for your apps because they are simple and you
know what you are doing but you will be proven wrong sooner or later to make sure that products that
we are creating always work as expected.
We should write altimeter tests and tests can be divided into two simple categories.
The first would be the unit tests and unit tests are for testing small isolated parts of your code like
one class or one method functionality.
And then we have feature tests which as the name suggests are for testing the specific features of your
application for example it might be testing if the blog post was actually saved.
When we sent our correct data.
And then if we see the flash message that the blog post was created.
So it might often involve making HDP requests to your running application by the way just a short reminder
that everything I am talking about inside this lecture you can also read on the VQ page.
The link is included under this lecture.
OK so let's move to the Visual Studio code and see how tests are organized inside a lot of application.
So by default we have this tests folder which lives inside the root directory of your larval application
and it contains two directories the feature which contains all your feature tests and you need which
will store all the unit tests.
Also inside the tests directory there is a test case file which contains a test case class from which
all your tests should extend.
So now we know where we should store our tests.
And now just let's take a look at two example tests that Lavell provides.
So first let's take a look at the unit test.
You can see that it extends the base test case class and that it contains one method called test basic
test.
So this is an important thing to remember that your test would be a class that would extend that test
case and then it will contain some metals and older methods that are actual tests should start with
the name test so let's take a look at another example that feature test.
Let's open the example test and you can see that it also extends the same class but it is a little bit
different.
The name of the one test that is inside this class also starts with test.
And this is actually a feature test and it's opening page.
In this case it's the main page and then it checks whether the return status was two hundred.
So that basically means if the page could be open and it is returning any result so you can run those
tests inside the command line whether it is power shell or terminal inside your mark by running this
command vendor been PDP need so after running this command you can see that two tests were run and they
contain two assertions and everything is green which means that all of our tests are passing so we have
two tests inside the application.
So that would be the test.
The method that name starts with test and then this is another test.
Of course you can have many tests inside one class.
So this is just an example as the name is suggesting.
And those two assertions is this chunk of code.
So inside your tests you will want to verify if something that you have expected has actually happened.
And this is called an assertion inside the test.
So in this case we are checking if after visiting this page with this URL the response status code was
200 which usually means that the page was returned correctly.
Everything works.
And this another example test is even simpler.
We are passing the true to the Assert true assertion method and verifying if true equals true.
So of course this would always pass.
So you can modify it to check if one equals two and after you will run peach period again you can see
that it failed to assert that false is true of course one doesn't equal two if you will modify it to
two equals two and run tests again.
Now we can see that they are passing again.
So now let's see what our typical test will consist of.
So it will consist of three parts that are wrenched apart the act part and the assault part.
So in this example test the first line is creating a new object.
And this is that orange part.
So we create a new object that will be testing then we have the act part when we actually call a method
of this object.
And the final line is to assert part when we verify that the results of this operation is as we expect
them to be so the orange part will not always be there because there are cases when we do not have to
create any objects or prepare anything for the test.
But the act and assert will be there because we always have to do something and then we have to verify
if the result of doing something is how we expected it to be.